So, moving on.
Hiring recruiter.
The second gatekeeper, second user,
they play a crucial role as a bridge
between the company and the candidate.
If you're applying for a software
engineering role, the recruiter will be
your primary point of contact
in the initial point of process.
They are the first person
that you will interact with.
And that makes them one of
the most important people.
At my current role at Microsoft,
we have a gotcha person,
right, which is non-technical but
you will interact
with that based upon how you
interact with this person,
it may be the fail or
pass of whether you get the job, right?
It's our way of ensuring that our
diversity and inclusion values are met
by seeing how you treat people who
may be different from you, right?
So you have to be very aware of where
these people are, I guess, the best way.
Anybody ever seen that meme of
the dude that played Bain and
they were like he treats the janitor
the same way he treats the CEO.
Which can be a good or
bad thing because I know when,
like Mark's a CEO and
I'll take Mark whenever and he's like,
Jerome, I'm like a whole
grown-up go- [LAUGH] [INAUDIBLE].
So you could take that as good way or
bad way, right?
So like I said, hiring recruiters
is gonna be your initial contact.
Good sign, right?
You want to build rapport with
your hiring recruiter, right?
These person is gonna go to bat for
you, they want to see you win.
They are different from every
other gatekeeper on this.
They need you to win cuz guess what?
No one wants to be no tied up in
the hiring process for long, right?
So once you reach this person,
this person's whole job is to
make sure you look good, right?
Your job is to make it look easy, right?
When they asked you for your resume,
already have a resume built out,
the resume is your highlight reel there,
they're just snapshot.
They're not meant to be super long ,is
meant to have just the good stuff and
move on with your life, right?
Your portfolio, that is your Picasso.
Make sure that the above-the-fold
content is nice.
It's processing fast.
We have an entire checklist.
We're gonna go through towards the later
so and I also added it as a resource.
So you don't even have to go and wait for
me to tell you that there's about 20, 30
pieces of the checklist for your portfolio
that I wanna make sure you're doing.
But those are the two rules that
I always follow, resumes and
snapshot portfolios or Picasa, right?
So you always wanna make sure your
portfolio tells the full story of
how good you are and how good you
can be if you're getting this role,
they take this opportunity with you,
right?
And it also is a form of data capture.
There're a lot people don't think of
when it comes to their portfolio.
We're gonna go more into that later.